# Creating Delegates

This section is all about delegates, events, lambda expressions and also expression bodied methods.

Exactly in this lecture, we will understand what is delegate; and we will see hHow to create the single cast delegates practically.

And in the further lectures of this course, we will understand multi cast delegates, events;

auto-implemented properties, anonymous methods, lambda expressions;

Inline Lambda expressions, expressions bodied methods, switch expression;

and the predefined delegates such as Func, Action, Predicate, EventHandler as well as Expression Trees.

So what is a delegate?

A delegate is a special object which stores a reference of a method.

A delegate can store the reference of one or more methods.

Using delegate, you can call one or more methods indirectly.

Generally, you will create a method in a class and invoke that method through object of the same class.

Alternatively, you can store that method reference in a delegate and invoke that method using delegate.

So delegate are all about indirect access of the methods.

What is the benefit of calling the method indirectly.

If you just use the delegates directly, there is special or particular benefit.

So that is the reason, it is very rare to use delegates directly in real time applications.

But the delegates are really helpful for building events.

What I'm trying to say exactly is that;

we use delegates in real time applications by only using events.

I will explain about events in further sections of the course.

So before than that - first we have to be clear - what is a delegate and how it works.

In real time projects, it is almost rare to use delegates directly.

But we use delegates indirectly by using 'events'.

Delegates are the building blocks in order to create events.

In other words events are internally delegates.

Any way, come back to delegates; so delegate is a special object which contains the reference of one or more methods;

and it is used to call those methods indirectly.

Delegate are created based on delegate type.

The delegate types are internally derived from a predefined parent class called "System.Delegate".

The delgate type restricts the delgates to store the reference of what kind of methods - that have what parameters and what return type.

For example, the return type is 'int' and it has two parameters called double, string.

This information will be stored in the delegate type.

Delegate types are internally "classes".

So much like a "class", you will create objects based on delegate type.

And in the actual delegate object, you will store the references of one or more methods that satisfies parameters and return types - that are defined by the delegate type.

So the role of delegate type here is - only to provide the list of parameters and corresponding return types.

The role of delegate object is that to store reference of one or more methods.

So in order to work with delegates - first you require to create delegate type.

And then you hace to create the delegate object.

The 'delegate type' is created by using 'delegate' keyword.

And then we have to fix a set of parameters and corresponding parameter names and types.

And also you have to fix the particular return type.

It can be void or other data type.

Also every delegate type will have a specific name.

This automatically - internally becomes as a class, which derived from the parent class called System.Delegate.

So overall, you have created a delegate type which is also internally a "class".

So just like you will create a reference variable for the class - you will create a reference variable for delegate type also.

So you will write delegate type name space reference variable - in order to create a reference variable based on delegate type.

And then you can store the references of one or more methods.

Internally it creates a delegate type object and stores the reference of the specified method.

This method might be belong to any other class.

It can be either instance method or static method.

And later you can invoke the same method by using the Invoke method of delegate type.

So you will call the Invoke method of delegate type based on reference variable;

that invokes or calls the specified method - that is referenced from the delegate object.

And while calling - you can supply a set of arguments that are required by the specified method.

So overall , what do you understand from the delegates is that;

the delegate object stores the reference of one or more methods.

So that you can invoke the same methods by using the delegate object.

In order to fix the particular parameters and return types of method, you require to create the delegate type.

The delegate object can not store the methods that does not match with the specified parameters and return type.

So the delegate type will not store reference of any one method.

But delegate type fixes the particular parameters and return types.

So it is more of a condition rather than storing the reference of method.

Actual reference of one or more methods are contained in the actual delegate object.

The delegate object can be created separately.

And actual method is present in some other class separately.

One delegate can contain any number of methods as long as parameters and return type are same.

And one method can be referenced by multiple delegates - if the parameters and return type are matching.

That means, the method parameter and return type must be match with parameters and return type that is mentioned in the delegate type.

Let me demonstrate the delegates in c#.

I am creating the new Console application.

Adding class Library to the solution.

And reference of the class library in the console application.

Now in the class library - we have a file called Class1.cs.

And I am trying to rename the Class1.cs as Sample.cs.

So inside the Sample.cs file of ClassLibrary1, we have class called 'Sample'.

And it has a method called 'Add' method - which adds two numbers and returns the same.

So I am declaring a local variable called "c".

And add the numbers; and return the same.

So the return type of the method is "int".

Now my goal is that - I want to store the reference of this method in a delegate.

And I want to invoke the same method by using that delegate.

So indirectly I wish to access that method - but not directly.

So inside the ClassLibrary1 - I need to add a delegate.

So right click on the ClassLibrary1 project. And - New Item.

Class.

File name is MyDelegate.cs.

I don't really require a class - but I require a delegate called MyDelegate.

So I am creating delegate type called MyDelegateType.

I wanted to declare the parameters same as the method.

Here the parameter names really doest not matter;

but the number of parameters and data types of parameters are the matter.

The number of parameters of the method and also data types of the parameters must be match with actual method that you have already created in the Sample class.

Because I wish to store the reference of the Add method in the delegate.

So the parameters must be match with the delegate type.

And the return type is "int".

So successfully we have created the delegate type.

But in this delegate type, we can't store address of the actual method.

We have to create an object for the deletgate type; and then you can store the reference of the Add() in that delegate object.

So I go to the Program.cs of the console application.

Importing the namespace of "ClassLibrary1".

And create an object for the Sample class.

Because I wish to access the Add method through that object only.

Now I wsih to create a delegate object, which is also called as "delegate".

So MyDelegateType myDelegateType or myDelegate.

So myDelegate is a reference variable that can store the reference of delegate;

and that delegate object stores the reference of a method.

So add method reference to delegate.

You wish to create a new object for MyDelegateType - because internally delegate types or classes.

And then you require to pass the method; that is s.Add.

Notice, we are not giving brackets ( ) here - because we are not invoking the method right now.

My intention is that - only we have to pass the reference of a method into the myDelegate.

So overall, we have created a new delegate object and store the reference of the method inside the delegate object.

And we have to store the reference of the delegate object in the reference variable called as "myDelegate".

And then you can invoke the Add method by using reference variable called myDelegate.

So in order to do so - you can call the Invoke the method of the delegate type; and supply the essential arguments.

So how it knows what parameters must be supplied for Add() method?

That is what we have already declared while creating the delegate type.

Here clearly said that - it contains two arguments i.e int, int.

So the same type of parameters should be supplied here.

For example I am suppliying 30,40.

And we have to print the returned value.

So in the Add method - we returned the value; the same value has to be displayed in the output by using the Console.WriteLine() statement.

So overall, what we have done is that - first we have created a target method in a class "Sample".

It containts some parameters and some return type.

And then MyDelegate.cs file - we have created a delegate type.

And the delegate type is mainly meant for representing the parameters and return type of the target method.

It says that, the method requires two parameters called int, int; and it must contain the return type called 'int'.

The same already reflected in the actual method.

So like this, the parameters and their data types along with return type must be match between the method name as well as delegate type.

And then we are creating a new delegate object that stores the reference of the Add method.

And in order to access the Add method - we are using the object of Sample class.

And finally we are calling the actual Add method by using Invoke method of the delegate type.

And we are supplying the arguments as described in the MyDelegateType.

So overall, the output that we can expect is 30 + 40 = 70.

So this is how to create the delegate type and create the delegate object;

store the reference of the method the delegate object and invoke the method by using delegate object.

Let's understand the rules of delegates.

You can invoke the methods by using the delegates.

Delegates can be used as parameters that passes the method references to other methods.

The method signature must be match with delegate type and method.

That means, the number of parameters, the parameter data types and return type must be match between the method and actual delegate type.

You can use the delegate type as parameter type or return types of the any other methods.

That means - for example you can specify my delegate type as parameter type or return type of any other method.

You can store the references of either non-static method or static method in the delegate object.

Whenever the delegate object contains the reference of only one method, it is called as "single-cast delegate" - and it can have return value.

But whenever the delegate object has references of more than one method at a time - it is called as "multi-cast delegate object".

But you can't return a value in case of multi-cast delegate.

In case if you do so - the return value of lastly executed only can be received.

The return value of the previously executed methods will not be received.

Any way, I will demonstrate the multi-cast delegates in the next lectrure; then this point may be clear for you.

All delegates types are derived from predefined parent class called "System.Delegate".

These are all the points that you require to understand about the delegates.

And in the next lecture, we will understand multi-cast delegates.

## SingleCastDelegatesExample.sln

```csharp
﻿
Microsoft Visual Studio Solution File, Format Version 12.00
# Visual Studio Version 16
VisualStudioVersion = 16.0.30204.135
MinimumVisualStudioVersion = 10.0.40219.1
Project("{FAE04EC0-301F-11D3-BF4B-00C04F79EFBC}") = "SingleCastDelegatesExample", "SingleCastDelegatesExample\SingleCastDelegatesExample.csproj", "{FED47EC0-BF67-4B71-A942-BB34E05FB555}"
EndProject
Project("{FAE04EC0-301F-11D3-BF4B-00C04F79EFBC}") = "ClassLibrary1", "ClassLibrary1\ClassLibrary1.csproj", "{BA4CCAD0-2BC4-496A-8824-B1528A678BD3}"
EndProject
Global
	GlobalSection(SolutionConfigurationPlatforms) = preSolution
		Debug|Any CPU = Debug|Any CPU
		Release|Any CPU = Release|Any CPU
	EndGlobalSection
	GlobalSection(ProjectConfigurationPlatforms) = postSolution
		{FED47EC0-BF67-4B71-A942-BB34E05FB555}.Debug|Any CPU.ActiveCfg = Debug|Any CPU
		{FED47EC0-BF67-4B71-A942-BB34E05FB555}.Debug|Any CPU.Build.0 = Debug|Any CPU
		{FED47EC0-BF67-4B71-A942-BB34E05FB555}.Release|Any CPU.ActiveCfg = Release|Any CPU
		{FED47EC0-BF67-4B71-A942-BB34E05FB555}.Release|Any CPU.Build.0 = Release|Any CPU
		{BA4CCAD0-2BC4-496A-8824-B1528A678BD3}.Debug|Any CPU.ActiveCfg = Debug|Any CPU
		{BA4CCAD0-2BC4-496A-8824-B1528A678BD3}.Debug|Any CPU.Build.0 = Debug|Any CPU
		{BA4CCAD0-2BC4-496A-8824-B1528A678BD3}.Release|Any CPU.ActiveCfg = Release|Any CPU
		{BA4CCAD0-2BC4-496A-8824-B1528A678BD3}.Release|Any CPU.Build.0 = Release|Any CPU
	EndGlobalSection
	GlobalSection(SolutionProperties) = preSolution
		HideSolutionNode = FALSE
	EndGlobalSection
	GlobalSection(ExtensibilityGlobals) = postSolution
		SolutionGuid = {A1466116-3FC6-40FB-BCB4-A1970D5C072F}
	EndGlobalSection
EndGlobal

```

## ClassLibrary1.csproj

```csharp
﻿<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<Project ToolsVersion="15.0" xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/developer/msbuild/2003">
  <Import Project="$(MSBuildExtensionsPath)\$(MSBuildToolsVersion)\Microsoft.Common.props" Condition="Exists('$(MSBuildExtensionsPath)\$(MSBuildToolsVersion)\Microsoft.Common.props')" />
  <PropertyGroup>
    <Configuration Condition=" '$(Configuration)' == '' ">Debug</Configuration>
    <Platform Condition=" '$(Platform)' == '' ">AnyCPU</Platform>
    <ProjectGuid>{BA4CCAD0-2BC4-496A-8824-B1528A678BD3}</ProjectGuid>
    <OutputType>Library</OutputType>
    <AppDesignerFolder>Properties</AppDesignerFolder>
    <RootNamespace>ClassLibrary1</RootNamespace>
    <AssemblyName>ClassLibrary1</AssemblyName>
    <TargetFrameworkVersion>v4.8</TargetFrameworkVersion>
    <FileAlignment>512</FileAlignment>
    <Deterministic>true</Deterministic>
  </PropertyGroup>
  <PropertyGroup Condition=" '$(Configuration)|$(Platform)' == 'Debug|AnyCPU' ">
    <DebugSymbols>true</DebugSymbols>
    <DebugType>full</DebugType>
    <Optimize>false</Optimize>
    <OutputPath>bin\Debug\</OutputPath>
    <DefineConstants>DEBUG;TRACE</DefineConstants>
    <ErrorReport>prompt</ErrorReport>
    <WarningLevel>4</WarningLevel>
  </PropertyGroup>
  <PropertyGroup Condition=" '$(Configuration)|$(Platform)' == 'Release|AnyCPU' ">
    <DebugType>pdbonly</DebugType>
    <Optimize>true</Optimize>
    <OutputPath>bin\Release\</OutputPath>
    <DefineConstants>TRACE</DefineConstants>
    <ErrorReport>prompt</ErrorReport>
    <WarningLevel>4</WarningLevel>
  </PropertyGroup>
  <ItemGroup>
    <Reference Include="System" />
    <Reference Include="System.Core" />
    <Reference Include="System.Xml.Linq" />
    <Reference Include="System.Data.DataSetExtensions" />
    <Reference Include="Microsoft.CSharp" />
    <Reference Include="System.Data" />
    <Reference Include="System.Net.Http" />
    <Reference Include="System.Xml" />
  </ItemGroup>
  <ItemGroup>
    <Compile Include="MyDelegate.cs" />
    <Compile Include="Sample.cs" />
    <Compile Include="Properties\AssemblyInfo.cs" />
  </ItemGroup>
  <Import Project="$(MSBuildToolsPath)\Microsoft.CSharp.targets" />
</Project>
```

## MyDelegate.cs

```csharp
﻿using System;

namespace ClassLibrary1
{
    //create delegate type
    public delegate int MyDelegateType(int a, int b);
}


```

## Sample.cs

```csharp
﻿using System;

namespace ClassLibrary1
{
    public class Sample
    {
        //target method
        public int Add(int a, int b)
        {
            int c = a + b;
            return c;
        }
    }
}



```

## .NETFramework,Version=v4.8.AssemblyAttributes.cs

```csharp
// <autogenerated />
using System;
using System.Reflection;
[assembly: global::System.Runtime.Versioning.TargetFrameworkAttribute(".NETFramework,Version=v4.8", FrameworkDisplayName = ".NET Framework 4.8")]

```

## ClassLibrary1.csproj.CoreCompileInputs.cache

```csharp
f0aa79e2dd43ddedd3ef55ebf12800c1c98bdae1

```

## ClassLibrary1.csproj.FileListAbsolute.txt

```csharp
c:\CSharp\SingleCastDelegatesExample\ClassLibrary1\bin\Debug\ClassLibrary1.dll
c:\CSharp\SingleCastDelegatesExample\ClassLibrary1\bin\Debug\ClassLibrary1.pdb
c:\CSharp\SingleCastDelegatesExample\ClassLibrary1\obj\Debug\ClassLibrary1.csprojAssemblyReference.cache
c:\CSharp\SingleCastDelegatesExample\ClassLibrary1\obj\Debug\ClassLibrary1.csproj.CoreCompileInputs.cache
c:\CSharp\SingleCastDelegatesExample\ClassLibrary1\obj\Debug\ClassLibrary1.dll
c:\CSharp\SingleCastDelegatesExample\ClassLibrary1\obj\Debug\ClassLibrary1.pdb

```

## AssemblyInfo.cs

```csharp
﻿using System.Reflection;
using System.Runtime.CompilerServices;
using System.Runtime.InteropServices;

// General Information about an assembly is controlled through the following
// set of attributes. Change these attribute values to modify the information
// associated with an assembly.
[assembly: AssemblyTitle("SingleCastDelegatesExample")]
[assembly: AssemblyDescription("")]
[assembly: AssemblyConfiguration("")]
[assembly: AssemblyCompany("")]
[assembly: AssemblyProduct("SingleCastDelegatesExample")]
[assembly: AssemblyCopyright("Copyright ©  2020")]
[assembly: AssemblyTrademark("")]
[assembly: AssemblyCulture("")]

// Setting ComVisible to false makes the types in this assembly not visible
// to COM components.  If you need to access a type in this assembly from
// COM, set the ComVisible attribute to true on that type.
[assembly: ComVisible(false)]

// The following GUID is for the ID of the typelib if this project is exposed to COM
[assembly: Guid("fed47ec0-bf67-4b71-a942-bb34e05fb555")]

// Version information for an assembly consists of the following four values:
//
//      Major Version
//      Minor Version
//      Build Number
//      Revision
//
// You can specify all the values or you can default the Build and Revision Numbers
// by using the '*' as shown below:
// [assembly: AssemblyVersion("1.0.*")]
[assembly: AssemblyVersion("1.0.0.0")]
[assembly: AssemblyFileVersion("1.0.0.0")]

```

## App.config

```csharp
﻿<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<configuration>
    <startup> 
        <supportedRuntime version="v4.0" sku=".NETFramework,Version=v4.8" />
    </startup>
</configuration>
```

## Program.cs

```csharp
﻿using System;
using ClassLibrary1;

namespace SingleCastDelegatesExample
{
    class Program
    {
        static void Main()
        {
            //create object of Sample class
            Sample s = new Sample();

            //create delegate object (or) delegate
            MyDelegateType myDelegate;

            //add method reference to delegate
            myDelegate = new MyDelegateType(s.Add);

            //invoke method using delegate object
            Console.WriteLine(myDelegate.Invoke(30, 40));

            Console.ReadKey();
        }
    }
}

```

## SingleCastDelegatesExample.csproj

```csharp
﻿<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<Project ToolsVersion="15.0" xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/developer/msbuild/2003">
  <Import Project="$(MSBuildExtensionsPath)\$(MSBuildToolsVersion)\Microsoft.Common.props" Condition="Exists('$(MSBuildExtensionsPath)\$(MSBuildToolsVersion)\Microsoft.Common.props')" />
  <PropertyGroup>
    <Configuration Condition=" '$(Configuration)' == '' ">Debug</Configuration>
    <Platform Condition=" '$(Platform)' == '' ">AnyCPU</Platform>
    <ProjectGuid>{FED47EC0-BF67-4B71-A942-BB34E05FB555}</ProjectGuid>
    <OutputType>Exe</OutputType>
    <RootNamespace>SingleCastDelegatesExample</RootNamespace>
    <AssemblyName>SingleCastDelegatesExample</AssemblyName>
    <TargetFrameworkVersion>v4.8</TargetFrameworkVersion>
    <FileAlignment>512</FileAlignment>
    <AutoGenerateBindingRedirects>true</AutoGenerateBindingRedirects>
    <Deterministic>true</Deterministic>
  </PropertyGroup>
  <PropertyGroup Condition=" '$(Configuration)|$(Platform)' == 'Debug|AnyCPU' ">
    <PlatformTarget>AnyCPU</PlatformTarget>
    <DebugSymbols>true</DebugSymbols>
    <DebugType>full</DebugType>
    <Optimize>false</Optimize>
    <OutputPath>bin\Debug\</OutputPath>
    <DefineConstants>DEBUG;TRACE</DefineConstants>
    <ErrorReport>prompt</ErrorReport>
    <WarningLevel>4</WarningLevel>
  </PropertyGroup>
  <PropertyGroup Condition=" '$(Configuration)|$(Platform)' == 'Release|AnyCPU' ">
    <PlatformTarget>AnyCPU</PlatformTarget>
    <DebugType>pdbonly</DebugType>
    <Optimize>true</Optimize>
    <OutputPath>bin\Release\</OutputPath>
    <DefineConstants>TRACE</DefineConstants>
    <ErrorReport>prompt</ErrorReport>
    <WarningLevel>4</WarningLevel>
  </PropertyGroup>
  <ItemGroup>
    <Reference Include="System" />
    <Reference Include="System.Core" />
    <Reference Include="System.Xml.Linq" />
    <Reference Include="System.Data.DataSetExtensions" />
    <Reference Include="Microsoft.CSharp" />
    <Reference Include="System.Data" />
    <Reference Include="System.Net.Http" />
    <Reference Include="System.Xml" />
  </ItemGroup>
  <ItemGroup>
    <Compile Include="Program.cs" />
    <Compile Include="Properties\AssemblyInfo.cs" />
  </ItemGroup>
  <ItemGroup>
    <None Include="App.config" />
  </ItemGroup>
  <ItemGroup>
    <ProjectReference Include="..\ClassLibrary1\ClassLibrary1.csproj">
      <Project>{ba4ccad0-2bc4-496a-8824-b1528a678bd3}</Project>
      <Name>ClassLibrary1</Name>
    </ProjectReference>
  </ItemGroup>
  <Import Project="$(MSBuildToolsPath)\Microsoft.CSharp.targets" />
</Project>
```

## SingleCastDelegatesExample.exe.config

```csharp
﻿<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<configuration>
    <startup> 
        <supportedRuntime version="v4.0" sku=".NETFramework,Version=v4.8" />
    </startup>
</configuration>
```

## SingleCastDelegatesExample.csproj.CopyComplete

```csharp

```

## SingleCastDelegatesExample.csproj.CoreCompileInputs.cache

```csharp
2f40b3cef415a4548d63532370b2510cc1cadebd

```

## SingleCastDelegatesExample.csproj.FileListAbsolute.txt

```csharp
c:\CSharp\SingleCastDelegatesExample\SingleCastDelegatesExample\bin\Debug\SingleCastDelegatesExample.exe.config
c:\CSharp\SingleCastDelegatesExample\SingleCastDelegatesExample\bin\Debug\SingleCastDelegatesExample.exe
c:\CSharp\SingleCastDelegatesExample\SingleCastDelegatesExample\bin\Debug\SingleCastDelegatesExample.pdb
c:\CSharp\SingleCastDelegatesExample\SingleCastDelegatesExample\bin\Debug\ClassLibrary1.dll
c:\CSharp\SingleCastDelegatesExample\SingleCastDelegatesExample\bin\Debug\ClassLibrary1.pdb
c:\CSharp\SingleCastDelegatesExample\SingleCastDelegatesExample\obj\Debug\SingleCastDelegatesExample.csprojAssemblyReference.cache
c:\CSharp\SingleCastDelegatesExample\SingleCastDelegatesExample\obj\Debug\SingleCastDelegatesExample.csproj.CoreCompileInputs.cache
c:\CSharp\SingleCastDelegatesExample\SingleCastDelegatesExample\obj\Debug\SingleCastDelegatesExample.csproj.CopyComplete
c:\CSharp\SingleCastDelegatesExample\SingleCastDelegatesExample\obj\Debug\SingleCastDelegatesExample.exe
c:\CSharp\SingleCastDelegatesExample\SingleCastDelegatesExample\obj\Debug\SingleCastDelegatesExample.pdb

```

