
# Section Cheat Sheet (PPT)

## Delegates
**Delegate type** is a type that represents methods with specific parameters and return type. A **delegate** (a.k.a. delegate object) stores a reference to a specific method of a specific class with compatible parameters and return type.

### Creating Delegate Type
```csharp
public delegate ReturnType DelegateTypeName(param1, param2);
```

### Creating Delegate Object
```csharp
DelegateTypeName ReferenceVariable = new DelegateTypeName(MethodName);
```

### Invoke Method using Delegate Object
```csharp
ReferenceVariable.Invoke(arg1, arg2, ...);
```

### Rules of Delegates
- You can invoke methods using delegate objects or delegates.
- Delegates are used to pass methods as arguments to other methods.
- The method signature must match between the method and delegate.
- Delegates can be used as parameter type or return type of a method.
- You can store references of non-static or static methods in the delegate object.
- Methods referenced in single-cast delegate objects can have return value.
- Methods referenced in multi-cast delegate objects can’t have return value (only the return value of the last executed method will be received).

### Types of Delegates
- **Single-Cast Delegates**: Contains reference of only one method. Directly invokes the referenced method.
- **Multi-Cast Delegates**: Contains references of multiple methods. Invokes all the referenced methods one-by-one in sequence.

## Events
An **event** is a multi-cast delegate that stores one or more methods and invokes them every time when the event is raised. The event can be raised only in the same class in which it is created.

### Process of Events
1. The Publisher class creates an event.
2. The Subscriber class subscribes to the event, creating an event handler method.
3. The Publisher class raises the event.
4. The event handler method in the Subscriber class executes automatically when the event is raised.

### Creating Events
1. Create a Delegate
    ```csharp
    public delegate ReturnType DelegateTypeName(param1, param2);
    ```

2. Create an Event in Publisher class
    ```csharp
    class Publisher
    {
        private DelegateTypeName eventVariable;

        public event DelegateTypeName EventName
        {
            add { eventVariable += value; }
            remove { eventVariable -= value; }
        }
    }
    ```

3. Raise the event in Publisher class
    ```csharp
    if (EventName != null)
        EventName(arg1, arg2, ...);
    ```

4. Create Event Handler Method in Subscriber class
    ```csharp
    class Subscriber
    {
        public ReturnType EventHandlerMethodName(param1, param2)
        {
            // Method body here
        }
    }
    ```

5. Subscribe to the Event (Inside or outside the subscriber class)
    ```csharp
    EventName += EventHandlerMethodName;
    ```

### Rules of Events
- Events should be created based on the delegate.
- An event can have multiple subscribers.
- A subscriber can subscribe to multiple events from multiple publishers.
- Events are signals to inform other classes that something important happened in the publisher class.
- Events are special kinds of multi-cast delegates that can be raised only within the same class in which they are created.
- Events can be static, virtual, sealed, and abstract.
- Events will not be raised if there are no subscribers.
- Events can be defined in interfaces.
- It's not advisable to return values in events.

### Auto-Implemented Events
Provide a shortcut syntax to create events with less code.
```csharp
class Publisher
{
    public event EventHandler EventName;
}
```
Disadvantage: We can't define custom logic for add and remove accessors.

### Anonymous Methods
Name-less methods invoked using the delegate variable or an event.
```csharp
EventName += delegate(param1, param2)
{
    // Method body here
}
```
Rules:
- Can't be called without a delegate or event.
- Can't contain jump statements like goto, break, continue.
- Can access local variables and parameters of the outer method.
- Can't access ref or out parameter of an outer method.

### Lambda Expressions
Name-less methods invoked using the delegate variable or an event.
```csharp
EventName += (param1, param2) =>
{
    // Method body here
}
```

### Inline Lambda Expressions
Lambda expressions that perform a small calculation or condition check and return a value.
```csharp
EventName += (param1, param2) => condition or calculation;
```

## Func
Pre-defined generic delegate for creating events quickly. Supports parameters and return value.
```csharp
Func<type1, type2, ...> referenceVariable;
```

## Action
Pre-defined delegate for creating events quickly. Similar to Func but does not have a return value.
```csharp
Action<type1, type2, ...> referenceVariable;
```

## Predicate
Pre-defined delegate for creating events quickly. Must have a return value of `bool` type.
```csharp
Predicate<type1> referenceVariable;
```

## EventHandler
Pre-defined delegate type with two parameters (`object sender`, `EventArgs e`) and no return value.
```csharp
public event EventHandler EventName;
```

## Expression Trees
Collection of delegates represented in a tree-like structure.
```csharp
Expression<Func<type1, type2, ...>> referenceVariable;
referenceVariable.Compile().Invoke(arg1, arg2, ...);
```

