
# Section Cheat Sheet (PPT)

## Value-Types vs Reference-Types

### Value Types (Structures Enumerations)
- Mainly meant for storing simple values.
- Instances (examples) are called "structure instances" or "enumeration instances".
- Instances are stored in "Stack". Every time when a method is called a new stack will be created.

### Reference Types (string Classes Interfaces Delegates)
- Mainly meant for storing complex/large amounts of values.
- Instances (examples) are called "Objects" (Class Instances / Interface Instances / Delegate Instances).
- Instances (objects) are stored in "heap". Heap is only one for entire application.

## Structures

A structure is a "type" similar to "class" which can contain fields, methods, parameterized constructors, properties, and events.

### Structure Example
```csharp
struct Student
{
    public int studentId;
    public string studentName;

    public string GetStudentName()
    {
        return studentName;
    }
}
```

### Structure Syntax
```csharp
struct StructureName
{
    fields
    methods
    parameterized constructors
    properties
    events
}
```

The instance of a structure is called a "structure instance" or "structure variable", but not called an 'object'. We can't create an object for a structure. Objects can be created only based on 'class'. Structure instances are stored in 'stack'. Structure doesn't support 'user-defined parameter-less constructor and also destructor. Structure can't inherit from other classes or structures. Structure can implement one or more interfaces. Structure doesn't support virtual and abstract methods. Structures ar...

## Class vs Structure

### Structures
- Structures are "value-types".
- Structure instances (includes fields) are stored in the stack. Structures don't require the Heap.
- Suitable to store small data (only one or two values).
- Memory allocation and de-allocation is faster in case of one or two values.
- Structures don't support Parameter-less Constructor.
- Structures don't support inheritance (can't be parent or child).
- The "new" keyword just initializes all fields of the "structure instance".
- Structures don't support abstract methods and virtual methods.
- Structures don't support destructors.
- Structures are internally derived from "System.ValueType". System.Object -> System.ValueType -> Structures.
- Structures don't support initializing "non-static fields" in the declaration.
- Structures don't support "protected" and "protected internal" access modifiers.
- Structure instances don't support assigning "null".

### Classes
- Classes are "reference-types".
- Class instances (objects) are stored in Heap; Class reference variables are stored in the stack.
- Suitable to store large data (any number of values).
- Memory allocation and de-allocation are a bit slower.
- Classes support Parameter-less Constructor.
- Classes support Inheritance.
- The "new" keyword creates a new object.
- Classes support abstract methods and virtual methods.
- Classes support destructors.
- Classes are internally and directly derived from "System.Object". System.Object -> Classes.
- Classes support initializing "non-static fields" in the declaration.
- Classes support "protected" and "protected internal" access modifiers.
- Class's reference variables support assigning "null".

## Constructors in Structures
C# provides a parameter-less constructor for every structure by default which initializes all fields. You can also create one or more user-defined parameterized constructors in structure. Each parameterized constructor must initialize all fields; otherwise, it will be a compile-time error. The "new" keyword used with structure doesn't create any object/allocate any memory in the heap; It is just a syntax to call the constructor of the structure.

```csharp
public StructureName(datatype parameter)
{
    field = parameter;
}
```

## Read-only Structures
Use readonly structures in case of all of these below:
- All fields are readonly.
- All properties have only 'get' accessors (readonly properties).
- There is a parameterized constructor that initializes all the fields.
- You don't want to allow changing any field or property of the structure.
- Methods can read fields but can't modify.

### Readonly Structure Example
```csharp
readonly struct Student
{
    public readonly int studentId;
    public string studentName { get; }

    public Student()
    {
        studentId = 1;
        studentName = "Scott";
    }
}
```

'Readonly structures' is a new feature in C# 8.0. This feature improves the performance of structures.

## Primitive Types as Structures
All primitive types are structures. For example, "sbyte" is a primitive type that is equivalent to "System.SByte" (can also be written as 'SByte') structure. In C# it is recommended to always use primitive types instead of structure names.

{content}
