
# Section Cheat Sheet

## Type Conversion

Type Conversion is a process of converting a value from one type (source type) to another type (destination type).

### Implicit Casting
- Converts from lower-numerical-type to higher-numerical-type.

### Explicit Casting
- Manually converts a value from one data type to another by specifying the destination data type within brackets on the left-hand side of the source value.
- Loose conversion may occur if the destination type is not sufficient to store the converted value.

### Parsing / TryParse
- Converts from string to numerical-type.

### Conversion Methods
- Converts any primitive type to any other primitive type and also string along with other types such as DateTime, Base64, etc.

#### Implicit Casting
- The lower-numerical type can be automatically (implicitly) converted into a higher-numerical type.

#### Explicit Casting
- Manually convert a value from one data type to another data type by specifying the destination data type within brackets on the left-hand side of the source value.
- Loose conversion: If the destination type is not sufficient enough to store the converted value, the value may be lost.

```csharp
Syntax: (DestinationDataType)SourceValue
```

#### Parse
- The string value can be converted into any numerical data type by using "Parsing" technique.
- The source value must contain digits only; shouldn't contain spaces, alphabets, or special characters.
- If the source value is invalid, it raises a FormatException.

```csharp
Syntax: DestinationDataType.Parse(SourceValue)
```

#### TryParse
- The string value can be converted into any numerical data type by using "TryParse" technique (same as "parse"); but it checks the source value before attempting to parse.
- If the source value is invalid, it returns false; It doesn't raise any exception in this case.
- If the source value is valid, it returns true (indicates conversion is successful). It avoids FormatException.

```csharp
bool variable = DestinationType.TryParse(SourceValue, out DestinationVariable)
```

#### Conversion Methods
- Conversion method is a pre-defined method which converts any primitive type (and also 'string') to any other primitive type (and also 'string').

```csharp
Syntax: type destinationVariable = Convert.ConversionMethod(SourceValue)
```

### Key Points to Remember
- For all the possible cases of 'implicit casting' and 'explicit casting' it is preferred to use 'explicit casting' or 'conversion methods' always.
- For conversion from 'string' to 'numerical type' use TryParse instead of 'Parse'; as 'TryParse' avoids exceptions.
- For conversion of value from any-type to any-type use conversion method.
