
# Section Cheat Sheet (PPT)

## Nullable Types

### Value Types (structures, enumerations)
- Value Types are by default non-nullable types.
- Non-nullable types don't support 'null' values to be assigned to their variables.

### Reference Types (classes, interfaces)
- Reference Types are by default nullable types.
- Nullable types support 'null' values assigned to their variables.
- They don't require special syntax to support null values.

### Converting Value-Types to Nullable-Types
```csharp
Nullable<int> x = null;
// or
int? x = null;
```

### Accessing value of a nullable type:
- `variable.Value`
- `variable.HasValue`

### What is null?
- Represents 'blank' value.
- Eg: In Employee class, the `int CreditCardNumber` can be 'null'.

## Null Coalescing Operator
The 'null coalescing operator' checks whether the value is null or not.
- It returns the left-hand-side operand if the value is not null.
- It returns the right-hand-side operand if the value is null.

### Advantage:
Simplifies the syntax of 'if statement' to check if the value is null.

### Syntax:
```csharp
variableName ?? valueIfNull
```

## Null Propagation Operator
The "Null Propagation Operator ( ?. ) and ( ? [] ) checks the value of the left-hand operand whether it is null or not.
- It returns the right-hand-side operand (property or method) if the value is not null.
- It returns null if the value is null.
- It accesses the property or method only if the reference variable is "not null"; just returns "null" if the reference variable is "null".

### Null Propagation Operator ( ?. ) - Syntax
```csharp
referenceVariable?.fieldName;
// is the same as
(referenceVariable == null)? null : referenceVariable.fieldName;
```

### Advantage:
We can invoke the desired member (property or method) after checking if null.
